Create guideline about render specifications on website (#374)
kyma-project/community: guidelines/content-guidelines/09-add-documentation-topic.md

---
title: Add new documentation to the website
---
​
This document explains how to add a new topic to the Kyma documentation to render it on the [Kyma website](https://kyma-project.io). It also describes how to modify an existing topic if you want OpenAPI specifications to show in a given topic's documentation.
​
## Add a new documentation topic
​
Follow these steps:
​

> 1. Create a pull request with `.md` files for the new documentation topic. Place the `.md` files under a new `docs` subfolder in the `kyma` repository, such as `docs/api-gateway-v2/`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a pull request with `.md` files for the new documentation topic. Place the `.md` files under a new `docs` subfolder in the `kyma` repository, such as `docs/api-gateway-v2/`.
```

​

> 2. In the same PR, create a `yaml` file under the [`templates`](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/master/resources/core/charts/docs/charts/content-ui/templates) folder to add a [ClusterDocsTopic CR](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/headless-cms/#custom-resource-cluster-docs-topic) CR for your topic. For example, if you add a ClusterDocsTopic CR for the API Gateway v2 component, name it `docs-components-api-gateway-v2-cdt.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the same PR, create a `.yaml` file under the [`templates`](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/master/resources/core/charts/docs/charts/content-ui/templates) folder to add a [ClusterDocsTopic CR](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/headless-cms/#custom-resource-cluster-docs-topic for your topic. For example, if you add a ClusterDocsTopic CR for the API Gateway v2 component, name it `docs-components-api-gateway-v2-cdt.yaml`.
```

​

>   See the example definition:

Reviewer: Still, an indent for the code snippet is missing

​

> ``` yaml

Reviewer: An indent missing.

apiVersion: cms.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: ClusterDocsTopic
metadata:
  labels:
    cms.kyma-project.io/view-context: docs-ui
    cms.kyma-project.io/group-name: components
    cms.kyma-project.io/order: "11"
  name: api-gateway-v2
spec:
  displayName: "API Gateway v2"
  description: "Overall documentation for API Gateway v2"
  sources:
    - type: markdown
      name: docs
      mode: package
      url: https://github.com/{{ .Values.global.kymaOrgName }}/kyma/archive/{{ .Values.global.docs.clusterDocsTopicsVersion }}.zip
      filter: /docs/api-gateway-v2/
```
​
3. Adjust values for these fields:
​

> - **cms.kyma-project.io/order** defines the order for your topic in the left navigation, such as `"11"`. To add it correctly, check in other `yaml` files which number is assigned to the last topic in the documentation navigation on the website, and add a consecutive number to your component. If you decide to modify the existing topic order, change the values for this parameter in all other `yaml` files accordingly to avoid duplicates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **cms.kyma-project.io/order** defines the number of your topic on the list in the left navigation, such as `"11"`. To add it correctly, check in other `.yaml` files which number is assigned to the last documentation topic in the navigation on the website, and add a consecutive number to your component. If you decide to modify the existing topic order, change values for this parameter in all other `.yaml` files accordingly to avoid duplicates.
```

> - **metadata.name** provides the name of the CR, such as `api-gateway-v2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **metadata.name** defines the CR name, such as `api-gateway-v2`.
```

> - **spec.displayname** defines the component name to show on the website, such as `"API Gateway v2"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **spec.displayname** defines the component name displayed on the website, such as `"API Gateway v2"`.
```

> - **spec.sources.filter** defines the location of document sources for the new topic, such as `/docs/api-gateway-v2/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **spec.sources.filter** defines the location of the new topic's document sources, such as `/docs/api-gateway-v2/`.
```

​
4. Merge the changes and wait until the website is rebuilt.
​
## Add a single OpenAPI specification
​

> Apart from the generic Kyma documentation, there are also [OpenAPI](https://swagger.io/specification/) specifications rendered on the [Kyma website](https://kyma-project.io). These specifications show on the website under the **API Consoles** type in the right navigation panel of a given component topic.

Reviewer: for me "generic" does not fit the context.
```suggestion
In addition to Kyma documentation, there are also [OpenAPI](https://swagger.io/specification/) specifications rendered on the [Kyma website](https://kyma-project.io). You can find these specifications under the **API Consoles** type in the right navigation panel of a given component topic.
```

​
To add a new specification, follow these steps:
​

> 1. Go to the [`templates`](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/master/resources/core/charts/docs/charts/content-ui/templates) folder and locate the existing ClusterDocsTopic CR that you want to modify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the [`templates`](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/master/resources/core/charts/docs/charts/content-ui/templates) folder and locate an existing ClusterDocsTopic CR that you want to modify.
```

​
2. Add a new source entry in the **sources** field:
​

> ``` yaml

Reviewer: An indent missing.

>   ``` yaml

Reviewer: Still, an indent is missing - click **view file**.

sources:
  ...
  - type: {SPECIFICATION_TYPE}
    name: {SPECIFICATION_NAME}
    mode: single
    url: {SPECIFICATION_URL}
```
​
where:
​
- **{SPECIFICATION_TYPE}** defines a type of a given specification. Currently, only [OpenAPI](https://swagger.io/specification/) specifications are supported and they are defined under the `openapi` type.
​
- **{SPECIFICATION_NAME}** defines a unique identifier of a given specification. This field defines the URL on https://kyma-project.io/docs under which the specification is displayed. For example, if the specification is added in the `application-connector` ClusterDocsTopic CR with the `connectorapi` value of the **name** field, its URL is `https://kyma-project.io/docs/{VERSION_OF_DOCS}/components/application-connector/specifications/connectorapi/`.
​

> - **{SPECIFICATION_URL}** defines the location of the specification. It may contain directives using values defined in `values.yaml` files. For internal specifications, defined in the [`kyma`](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma) repository, it is recommended to use the directive with the Kyma version and the organization name, such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **{SPECIFICATION_URL}** defines the location of the specification. It may contain directives using values defined in `values.yaml` files. For internal specifications defined in the [`kyma`](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma) repository, it is recommended to use the directive with a Kyma version and the organization name, such as:
```
I cannot find the Kyma version in the example... is it somewhere there?

​

>   ``` yaml

Reviewer: indent

  url: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/{{ .Values.global.kymaOrgName }}/kyma/{{ .Values.global.docs.clusterDocsTopicsVersion }}/docs/application-connector/assets/connectorapi.yaml
  ```
​

> See the example:

Reviewer: The example should be under the second point - indent missing.

>   See the example:

Reviewer: indent
